---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Progress in Programming"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-04-11
published: true
labels:
  - Assignment1 
---
<h1> 1. My programming skills have greately improved in the following ways:</h1>
<p>After completeing Assignment 1, the labs, and the WODS, my programming skills have greatly improved. I've become more efficient in finding errors in my code. I recognized the importance of naming variables well so I can reference it better later on in the code. I also improved on my researching skills as I was very inexperienced in researching for code. In the beginning, I would only utilize ChatGPT for assitance as I didn't understand what to look for when researching code. Additionally, my organization has improved greatly. I know to format my code to look better and easier to read, which has contributed to my ability to find mistakes. Another skill that improved my coding was my commenting. I would never leave a comment during the first half of the semester as I found it to be very inefficient. However, I learned that comments not only help me remember what my code does, but also helps other people understand what is happening in my code. It has helped with clarifications, such as the speific purpose of a if statement.</p>

<h1> 2. I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:</h1>
<p>Although I've improved on catching my own mistakes, I still make minor mistakes that break my code. I make typo errors when I am referencing my variables or my arrays. When I was working on Assignment 1 I made a tin ytypo error when I was doing my if statements where I referenced my table array and I included a extra "r" which broke my code. I had a hard time finding that mistake which wasted a lot of my time. However, I learned from professor port that it's better to copy and paste variables so that these typos don't happen. If a mistake were to occur then I would know that it wasn't a typo error. Additionally, I also have a tendency to write too much code before I check to see if it works which can make finding mistakes harder. I had this problem when I was trying to implement the red frame around my textbox and I wasn't sure why it would highlight every textbox when an error occurred. Although I asked Professor Port for assistance, I learned that I should consciously limit myself to "7" lines of code to ensure that it works before I write anymore.</p>


<h1> 3. I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:</h1>
<p>The WODS were extremely helpful in making my learn to think like a coder. I watched a couple of the screencast for the WODS but I would limit it to specific problems and not watch the whole video for the solution. This was a great way for my implement what I learned in class which helped me improve my coding skills. However, sometimes I would work on the WOD before class and I found that this helped me follow along better and understand what Professor Port was explaining. This took a lot of self learning and I don't recommend it as it could confuse you more than it could help you.  Most of my WODs took 2 tries and this was because I wanted to finish the WOD under Rx time, which took more time than needed but I felt like I understood the concepts better. This also forced me to not remember my code but to understand it so I'm not just regurgitating what I did before.</p>


<h1> 4. The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:</h1>
<p>The labs were extremely useful in helping my understand what I was reading and watching before class started. But, most of the time we would run out of time and I had to finish the labs on my own which really forced me to think about how to write the code. Most of the time I was able to make the code work, but during the later half of the semester when concepts were harder to grasp I had a hard time figuring out the code. I wasn't sure how to fix some of the problems I was having with the code and I'm not sure if I was misrerading some of the instructions. However, I know that the instructions were meant to be a little vague because they wanted us to figure out the code on our own. This made the class difficult as I had do a lot of self learning and research to understand how to write and execute the code. </p>


<h1> 5. I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:</h1>
<p>Assignment 1 was very difficult for my to finish but I felt relieved when my code was finally working. I went to all of Professor Ports office hours to figure out how to do my code. I think the hardest part for me was understanding that the code shouldn't be complicated. I was trying to think of these extremely complex codes that wouldn't work. This was what made me take a long time to figuring out my code. I also had trouble stopping myself from using ChatGPT and this also confused me a lot because the code they gave my wouldn't work. I learned that ChatGPT doesn't always fully understand my problems and that I shouldn't be using everything it gives me. When using ChatGPT I should only be using a few sections of the code. However, now that I was able to get my code to work I feel more confident in my ability to figure out Assignment 2. 


<h1> 6. I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:</h1>
<p>One aspect of the class that I believe can be improved is spending more time on labs that we weren't able to finish in class. I know that there is limited time and that we have to learn everything before the semester ends, but sometimes it was difficult for my to finish the lab since I wasn't sure how to do the code. Maybe there could be more office hours outside of class that could be used to finish the last exercse of the lab. This is mainly because someof the exercises before the "own your own" were important for me to understand the what was happening in the previous exercise. If I wasn't able to understand those than it may be difficult for me to have the correct code for the lab. I believe this was why I lost points in some of my labs as we had to do some of the exercises on our own that weren't meant for solo work. Additionally, I believe that Professor Port is too smart for us and can sometimes complicate concepts. I think he has too much faith in us at times and I wish he would dumb down some concepts for us. Overall, I belive that the class provided a good learning experience.</p>


<h1> 7. What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):</h1>
<p>The WODS helped me the most because I had to implement what I learned in class. This forced me to pay to attention to be able to finish the WODS on my own. I also liked how the WODS built up to helping me do Assignment 1. The difficultly of each WOD would increase but it made learning the code interesting as I feel that I am improving my understanding. I reused a lot of what we learned in previous WODS in my Assignment 1 and that helped me finish my code. Additionally, Professor Port answered to my emails extremely quickly and was willing to give a lot of help outside of class. This helped me solve problems faster and helped me understand the concepts better. I mainly joined office hours during the later half of the semester. This was also one of the reasons why I was able to finish my code for Assignment 1 as Professor Port made an effort to help everyone outside of class because he knew that we would have trouble figuring out our problems. This made gave me a positive learning expreience as I wasn't afraid to reach out for help.</p>

